deployment/docker-compose/pretix/README.md, before:

What is this?
-------------

This is a small example setup to run pretix with docker-compose.


Prepare
-------

- Change the pretix/etc/pretix.cfg to fit your needs
- Change the .dbenv to fit the pretix.cfg


Run with nginx container:
-------------------------

Remove these lines from docker-compose.yml

```bash
ports:
  - "0.0.0.0:8000:8000"
```

Run following command to start:
```bash
cp -r ../../../src src_tmp # Due to security reasons Docker cant build from parent directories
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.nginx.yml up --force-recreate --build
```

No volumes are shared with the host. Named Volumes will be used.

Run without nginx container:
----------------------------

```bash
cd docker-compose/pretix
mkdir static data # Create the dirs by hand, otherwise they will belong to root
chown -R www-data:www-data static data
cp -r ../../../src src_tmp # Due to security reasons Docker cant build from parent directories
docker-compose up --force-recreate --build
```

__Shared host volumes:__

- ./static
- ./data

No data from the /static or /data location will be delivered. It's up to you how u deliver them. See nginx/nginx.conf for example

Commit message:

Update help add haproxy example and nginx healthcheck

deployment/docker-compose/pretix/README.md, after:

# Example docker-compose setup

## What is this?

This is a small example setup to run pretix with docker-compose.

## Prepare

* Change the `pretix/etc/pretix.cfg` to fit your needs
* Change the `.dbenv` to fit the `pretix.cfg`
* Copy the content of `../../../src` into `src_tmp`

## Run with nginx container

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.nginx.yml up --force-recreate --build
```

No volumes are shared with the host.
Named Volumes will be used instead.

## Run without nginx container

```bash
docker-compose up --force-recreate --build
```

## Run with nginx and existing haproxy

### Preparation

* A working haproxy setup
* A precreated transfer network named `HAProxy2Pretix` with your haproxy having `10.255.0.1/30`
* Your haproxy is lookign for pretix on the ip `10.255.0.2` on the `HAProxy2Pretix` interface

### Starting

```bash
docker-compose -f docker-compose.yml -f docker-compose.nginx.yml -f docker-compose.toHAProxy.yml up --force-recreate --build
```
